Overview
########
While Aegislash has a good defensive typing and an ability that allows it to switch between great bulk and power, it has several flaws that prevent it from doing its job consistently. Its signature move, King's Shield, lets it switch forms and check physical attackers like Zekrom, but allows opponents a free turn to switch or status it. Aegislashs unique typing and bulk make it the best counter to Geomancy Xerneas, but it lacks recovery outside of Leftovers and is weak to some other common attacking types in the Ubers metagame, meaning it can be worn down easily. One key advantage Aegislash has over other walls is that it cannot be trapped by Mega Gengar, and actually OHKOs it with uninvested Shadow Ball 81.3% of the time while living one from Gengar. Unfortuantely, it lacks strong STABs and Speed, limiting it to a defensive role. Aegislash is a Pokemon that is useful only for a very specific purpose, and nothing beyond it, and should never be the first choice for a team.

Specially Defensive
########
name: Specially Defensive
move 1: King's Shield
move 2: Toxic
move 3: Gyro Ball / Iron Head
move 4: Shadow Ball / Shadow Sneak
ability: Stance Change
item: Leftovers
evs: 252 HP / 4 Atk / 252 SpD
nature: Sassy

Moves
========
King's Shield allows Aegislash to scout, get more Leftovers recovery, and most importantly, change back to shield forme. It also allows it to lower the Attack of anything that hits it with a contact move, most importantly during Outrage. Toxic allows Aegislash to beat walls like support Arceus and Lugia and synergizes great with King's Shield. It also lets you beat Substitute Ho-Oh if you hit it on the switch. Head Smash also beats Ho-Oh on the switch and does a ton to Yveltal/Shaymin-S but means you lose the ability to Toxic any wall, meaning Toxic is usually the better option. Gyro Ball easily OHKOs a boosted Xerneas and can do chip damage to many faster Pokemon switching in, like Darkrai. Iron Head is much more reliable but can never OHKO Xerneas even after Stealth Rock, though is much better against defensive Xerneas, which always 3HKOs it, while Gyro Ball barely 4HKOs. Shadow Ball hits some frailer Pokemon hard, but is too weak uninvested to do any major damage to bulkier Pokemon, failing even to take out a Substitute from Ho-Oh, but does a lot of damage to Mewtwo, which Aegislash can live any hit from near full health. It also 3HKOs Groudon and 2HKOs Landorus-T and Hippowdon, meaning they must be careful switching into it. Shadow Sneak can be used over Shadow Ball to revenge kill a weakened sweeper like Mewtwo or Arceus-Ghost, but will not do any major damage otherwise.

Set Details
========
Leftovers synergizes well with King's Shield and is Aegislashs only form of recovery. The EVs and Sassy nature give Aegislash maximum special bulk without compromising either attacking stat, and should be used even without Shadow Ball to increase the power of Gyro Ball and lower the chance of being hit in blade form. Running max HP and Speed with a Jolly nature and Head Smash destroys any Ho-Oh with under 100 EVs, acting as an amazing lure, but this causes a ton of recoil and a lot less bulk, as well as forcing you to run Iron Head over Gyro Ball and Shadow Sneak over Shadow Ball.

Usage Tips
========
Stance Change gives a well played Aegislash great bulk and power, but defensive Aegislash should not be taking unecesary hits in either form due to lack of recovery. Aegislash is not going to wall everything and should not be the only defensive Pokemon on your team, do not keep it in against something that can overpower it like Kyogre. If you can look at the opponents team and see Aegislash is useless then feel free to let it die, but using King's Shield and dropping thr oppontns Attack the turn before dying can give a teammate a chance to set up as they are forced to switch. Your STABs are weak without investment, stick to spreading Toxic until you have to attack, because you don't want to be stuck in Blade form, outside of Pokemon like Gengar or Xerneas, they will mostly be doing only chip damage. Switching when in Blade form allows you to come back in Shield form. Attacking then switching allows you to get chip damage, then switch out yourself without needing to use King's Shield. Play conservatively and avoid a burn, especially if you see a Xerneas, until you can scout what it's using and play around it.

Team Options
========
Defensive Ho-Oh resists Fire and is immune to Ground, and has good Special Defense to take hits from Yveltal, and Aegislash can take Rock-type moves for Ho-Oh, but neither can handle Kyogre. Landorus-T is immune to Earthquake, beats many common Fire-types excluding Ho-Oh, and has U-turn to bring Aegislash in slowly, and can also set up Stealth Rock. A defensive Yveltal can beat Excadrill and Arceus-Ghost. Arceus-Rock beats Ho-Oh but also loses to Yveltal that have Focus Blast. Palkia can beat Kyogre, and Aegislash can take Dragon-type attacks for Palkia. Do not build around Aegislash, it is a utility Pokemon before anything else, and should only be added to a team that needs it.

Other Options
########
Aegislash has the stats to go offensive, but not the movepool or Speed, and this is better left to Arceus-Ghost as it can boost and recover, and has the Speed to sweep. Using Flash Cannon as a Steel STAB would mean boosted Xerneas can wall and destroy you, and Shadow Ball hits everything Flash Cannon would. Sacred Sword can be useful to hit Ferrothorn, Arceus-Steel, or Arceus-Dark, but is very weak uninvested, and the other moves are much more important. You can try using a physically defensive set, but this means you are always 2HKOd by HP Fire from boosted Xerneas, and lose to a Shadow Ball from Mega Gengar. Pursuit hurts some pokemon like Mega Gengar but is once again incredibly weak, failing to OHKO Mega Gengar without compromising bulk. Boosting sets, such as Swords Dance or Autotomize should never be used, as Aegislash has coverage issues and weak moves.

Checks & Counters
########
- Yveltal - OHKOs Aegislash with Dark Pulse, and can set up a Substitute if it predictes King's Shield. Toxic becomes a wasted turn if Yveltal Substitutes, and only the rare Head Smash can scare it.

- Ho-Oh - Ho-Oh also sets up a Substitute on Toxic and can do a lot of damage to while possibly burning Aegislash, and not activating King's Shield. Only fears Head Smash.

- Kyogre - Aegislash does not have the bulk to take Water Spouts and defensive ones can Rest if Toxic damage gets too high. Aegislash also fears Scald burns.

- Darkrai - Takes decent damage from Gyro Ball, but Substiute variants set up over it and then can put it to sleep or just kill it off with Dark Pulse.

- Arceus-Dark - Easily takes hits from Aegislash while getting rid of Toxic with Refresh or avoiding it with Substitute, and then can beat Aegislash with a Judgement.

- Arceus-Normal - Hates Toxic, but can use Earthquake to get around King's Shield, or set up on King's Shield. Aegislash can beat unboosted ones without Earthquake, but those are rare. Occasionally uses Lum Berry as well.

- Fire types - Requires prediction to beat Mega Charizard X and Blaziken. Loses to Mega Charizard Y, Heatran, Arceus-Fire, and Reshiram all the time.

- Dialga - Immune to Toxic and doesn't take much from anything Aegislash can use against it, and can beat Aegislash with Fire Blast.

- Arceus-Steel - Immune to Toxic and can set up on it or Burn it.

- Arceus-Poison - Immune to Toxic and can set up on it or Burn it.

- Excadrill - Immune to Toxic and can Earthquake it.

- Gliscor - Immune to Toxic and can Earthquake it, but takes a decent amount from Shadow Ball.